README.md, before:

# Ceph - a scalable distributed storage system

See https://ceph.com/ for current information about Ceph.

## Status

[![OpenSSF Best Practices](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/2220/badge)](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/2220)
[![Issue Backporting](https://github.com/ceph/ceph/actions/workflows/create-backport-trackers.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ceph/ceph/actions/workflows/create-backport-trackers.yml)

## Contributing Code

Most of Ceph is dual-licensed under the LGPL version 2.1 or 3.0. Some
miscellaneous code is either public domain or licensed under a BSD-style
license.

The Ceph documentation is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution Share
Alike 3.0 (CC-BY-SA-3.0). 

Some headers included in the `ceph/ceph` repository are licensed under the GPL.
See the file `COPYING` for a full inventory of licenses by file.

All code contributions must include a valid "Signed-off-by" line. See the file
`SubmittingPatches.rst` for details on this and instructions on how to generate
and submit patches.

Assignment of copyright is not required to contribute code. Code is
contributed under the terms of the applicable license.


## Checking out the source

Clone the ceph/ceph repository from github by running the following command on
a system that has git installed:

	git clone git@github.com:ceph/ceph

Alternatively, if you are not a github user, you should run the following
command on a system that has git installed:

	git clone https://github.com/ceph/ceph.git

When the `ceph/ceph` repository has been cloned to your system, run the
following commands to move into the cloned `ceph/ceph` repository and to check
out the git submodules associated with it:

    cd ceph
	git submodule update --init --recursive --progress


## Build Prerequisites

*section last updated 06 Sep 2024*

We provide the Debian and Ubuntu ``apt`` commands in this procedure. If you use
a system with a different package manager, then you will have to use different
commands. 

#. Install ``curl``:

    apt install curl

#. Install package dependencies by running the ``install-deps.sh`` script:

	./install-deps.sh

#. Install the ``python3-routes`` package:

    apt install python3-routes


## Building Ceph

These instructions are meant for developers who are compiling the code for
development and testing. To build binaries that are suitable for installation
we recommend that you build `.deb` or `.rpm` packages, or refer to
``ceph.spec.in`` or ``debian/rules`` to see which configuration options are
specified for production builds.

To build Ceph, follow this procedure: 

1. Make sure that you are in the top-level `ceph` directory that
   contains `do_cmake.sh` and `CONTRIBUTING.rst`.
2. Run the `do_cmake.sh` script:

       ./do_cmake.sh

   ``do_cmake.sh`` by default creates a "debug build" of Ceph, which can be 
   up to five times slower than a non-debug build. Pass 
   ``-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo`` to ``do_cmake.sh`` to create a 
   non-debug build.
3. Move into the `build` directory:

       cd build
4. Use the `ninja` buildsystem to build the development environment:

       ninja -j3

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   >
   > [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org/) is the build system used by the Ceph
   > project to build test builds.  The number of jobs used by `ninja` is 
   > derived from the number of CPU cores of the building host if unspecified. 
   > Use the `-j` option to limit the job number if build jobs are running 
   > out of memory. If you attempt to run `ninja` and receive a message that 
   > reads `g++: fatal error: Killed signal terminated program cc1plus`, then 
   > you have run out of memory.
   >
   > Using the `-j` option with an argument appropriate to the hardware on
   > which the `ninja` command is run is expected to result in a successful
   > build. For example, to limit the job number to 3, run the command `ninja
   > -j3`. On average, each `ninja` job run in parallel needs approximately
   > 2.5 GiB of RAM.

   This documentation assumes that your build directory is a subdirectory of
   the `ceph.git` checkout. If the build directory is located elsewhere, point
   `CEPH_GIT_DIR` to the correct path of the checkout. Additional CMake args 
   can be specified by setting ARGS before invoking ``do_cmake.sh``. 
   See [cmake options](#cmake-options) for more details. For example:

       ARGS="-DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=gcc-7" ./do_cmake.sh

   To build only certain targets, run a command of the following form:

       ninja [target name]

5. Install the vstart cluster:

       ninja install

    

 
### CMake Options

The `-D` flag can be used with `cmake` to speed up the process of building Ceph
and to customize the build.

#### Building without RADOS Gateway

The RADOS Gateway is built by default. To build Ceph without the RADOS Gateway,
run a command of the following form:

	cmake -DWITH_RADOSGW=OFF [path to top-level ceph directory]

#### Building with debugging and arbitrary dependency locations 

Run a command of the following form to build Ceph with debugging and alternate
locations for some external dependencies:

	cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/ceph -DCMAKE_C_FLAGS="-Og -g3 -gdwarf-4" \
	..

Ceph has several bundled dependencies such as Boost, RocksDB and Arrow. By
default, `cmake` builds these bundled dependencies from source instead of using
libraries that are already installed on the system. You can opt to use these
system libraries, as long as they meet Ceph's version requirements. To use
system libraries, use `cmake` options like `WITH_SYSTEM_BOOST`, as in the
following example:

	cmake -DWITH_SYSTEM_BOOST=ON [...]

To view an exhaustive list of -D options, invoke `cmake -LH`:

	cmake -LH

#### Preserving diagnostic colors

If you pipe `ninja` to `less` and would like to preserve the diagnostic colors
in the output in order to make errors and warnings more legible, run the
following command:  

	cmake -DDIAGNOSTICS_COLOR=always ...

The above command works only with supported compilers.

The diagnostic colors will be visible when the following command is run: 

	ninja | less -R

Other available values for `DIAGNOSTICS_COLOR` are `auto` (default) and
`never`.

## Tips and Tricks

   * Use "debug builds" only when needed. Debugging builds are helpful for
     development, but they can slow down performance. Use
     `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` when debugging isn't necessary.
   * Enable Selective Daemons when testing specific components. Don't start
     unnecessary daemons.
   * Preserve Existing Data skip cluster reinitialization between tests by
     using the `-n` flag.
   * To manage a vstart cluster, stop daemons using `./stop.sh` and start them
     with `./vstart.sh --daemon osd.${ID} [--nodaemonize]`. 
   * Restart the sockets by stopping and restarting the daemons associated with
     them. This ensures that there are no stale sockets in the cluster.
   * To track RocksDB performance, set `export ROCKSDB_PERF=true` and start
     the cluster by using the command `./vstart.sh -n -d -x --bluestore`. 
   * Build with `vstart-base` using debug flags in cmake, compile, and deploy
     via `./vstart.sh -d -n --bluestore`.
   * To containerize, generate configurations with `vstart.sh`, and deploy with
     Docker, mapping directories and configuring the network.
   * Manage containers using `docker run`, `stop`, and `rm`. For detailed
     setups, consult the Ceph-Container repository.

##  Troubleshooting     
 
   * Cluster Fails to Start: Look for errors in the logs under the `out/`
     directory.
   * OSD Crashes: Check the OSD logs for errors.
   * Cluster in a `Health Error` State: Run the `ceph status` command to
     identify the issue.
   * RocksDB Errors: Look for RocksDB-related errors in the OSD logs.

## Building a source tarball

To build a complete source tarball with everything needed to build from
source and/or build a (deb or rpm) package, run

	./make-dist

This will create a tarball like ceph-$version.tar.bz2 from git.
(Ensure that any changes you want to include in your working directory
are committed to git.)


## Running a test cluster

From the `ceph/` directory, run the following commands to launch a test Ceph
cluster:

	cd build
	ninja vstart        # builds just enough to run vstart
	../src/vstart.sh --debug --new -x --localhost --bluestore
	./bin/ceph -s

Most Ceph commands are available in the `bin/` directory. For example:

	./bin/rbd create foo --size 1000
	./bin/rados -p foo bench 30 write

To shut down the test cluster, run the following command from the `build/`
directory:

	../src/stop.sh

Use the sysvinit script to start or stop individual daemons: 

	./bin/init-ceph restart osd.0
	./bin/init-ceph stop


## Running unit tests

To build and run all tests (in parallel using all processors), use `ctest`:

	cd build
	ninja
	ctest -j$(nproc)

(Note: Many targets built from src/test are not run using `ctest`.
Targets starting with "unittest" are run in `ninja check` and thus can
be run with `ctest`. Targets starting with "ceph_test" can not, and should
be run by hand.)

When failures occur, look in build/Testing/Temporary for logs.

To build and run all tests and their dependencies without other
unnecessary targets in Ceph:

	cd build
	ninja check -j$(nproc)

To run an individual test manually, run `ctest` with -R (regex matching):

	ctest -R [regex matching test name(s)]

(Note: `ctest` does not build the test it's running or the dependencies needed
to run it)

To run an individual test manually and see all the tests output, run
`ctest` with the -V (verbose) flag:

	ctest -V -R [regex matching test name(s)]

To run tests manually and run the jobs in parallel, run `ctest` with 
the `-j` flag:

	ctest -j [number of jobs]

There are many other flags you can give `ctest` for better control
over manual test execution. To view these options run:

	man ctest


### Building Ceph using Containers

Ceph now provides tools to build the code, run unit tests, or build packages
from within an OCI-style container using Podman or Docker! This allows one to
build code for distributions other than the one you have on your system, avoids
the need to install build dependencies for Ceph on your local system and
provides an opportunity to test builds on platforms that are not yet supported
by the official build infrastructure. For more details see the [container build
document](ContainerBuild.md).


## Building the Documentation

### Prerequisites

The list of package dependencies for building the documentation can be
found in `doc_deps.deb.txt`:

	sudo apt-get install `cat doc_deps.deb.txt`

### Building the Documentation

To build the documentation, ensure that you are in the top-level
`/ceph` directory, and execute the build script. For example:

	admin/build-doc

## Reporting Issues

To report an issue and view existing issues, please visit https://tracker.ceph.com/projects/ceph.

Commit message:

doc/README: add Build Types section
Originated from: https://tracker.ceph.com/issues/71360

Signed-off-by: Matan Breizman <mbreizma@redhat.com>

README.md, after:

# Ceph - a scalable distributed storage system

See https://ceph.com/ for current information about Ceph.

## Status

[![OpenSSF Best Practices](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/2220/badge)](https://www.bestpractices.dev/projects/2220)
[![Issue Backporting](https://github.com/ceph/ceph/actions/workflows/create-backport-trackers.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ceph/ceph/actions/workflows/create-backport-trackers.yml)

## Contributing Code

Most of Ceph is dual-licensed under the LGPL version 2.1 or 3.0. Some
miscellaneous code is either public domain or licensed under a BSD-style
license.

The Ceph documentation is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution Share
Alike 3.0 (CC-BY-SA-3.0). 

Some headers included in the `ceph/ceph` repository are licensed under the GPL.
See the file `COPYING` for a full inventory of licenses by file.

All code contributions must include a valid "Signed-off-by" line. See the file
`SubmittingPatches.rst` for details on this and instructions on how to generate
and submit patches.

Assignment of copyright is not required to contribute code. Code is
contributed under the terms of the applicable license.


## Checking out the source

Clone the ceph/ceph repository from github by running the following command on
a system that has git installed:

	git clone git@github.com:ceph/ceph

Alternatively, if you are not a github user, you should run the following
command on a system that has git installed:

	git clone https://github.com/ceph/ceph.git

When the `ceph/ceph` repository has been cloned to your system, run the
following commands to move into the cloned `ceph/ceph` repository and to check
out the git submodules associated with it:

    cd ceph
	git submodule update --init --recursive --progress


## Build Prerequisites

*section last updated 06 Sep 2024*

We provide the Debian and Ubuntu ``apt`` commands in this procedure. If you use
a system with a different package manager, then you will have to use different
commands. 

#. Install ``curl``:

    apt install curl

#. Install package dependencies by running the ``install-deps.sh`` script:

	./install-deps.sh

#. Install the ``python3-routes`` package:

    apt install python3-routes


## Building Ceph

These instructions are meant for developers who are compiling the code for
development and testing. To build binaries that are suitable for installation
we recommend that you build `.deb` or `.rpm` packages, or refer to
``ceph.spec.in`` or ``debian/rules`` to see which configuration options are
specified for production builds.

To build Ceph, follow this procedure: 

1. Make sure that you are in the top-level `ceph` directory that
   contains `do_cmake.sh` and `CONTRIBUTING.rst`.
2. Run the `do_cmake.sh` script:

       ./do_cmake.sh

   See [build types](#build-types).

3. Move into the `build` directory:

       cd build
4. Use the `ninja` buildsystem to build the development environment:

       ninja -j3

   > [!IMPORTANT]
   >
   > [Ninja](https://ninja-build.org/) is the build system used by the Ceph
   > project to build test builds.  The number of jobs used by `ninja` is 
   > derived from the number of CPU cores of the building host if unspecified. 
   > Use the `-j` option to limit the job number if build jobs are running 
   > out of memory. If you attempt to run `ninja` and receive a message that 
   > reads `g++: fatal error: Killed signal terminated program cc1plus`, then 
   > you have run out of memory.
   >
   > Using the `-j` option with an argument appropriate to the hardware on
   > which the `ninja` command is run is expected to result in a successful
   > build. For example, to limit the job number to 3, run the command `ninja
   > -j3`. On average, each `ninja` job run in parallel needs approximately
   > 2.5 GiB of RAM.

   This documentation assumes that your build directory is a subdirectory of
   the `ceph.git` checkout. If the build directory is located elsewhere, point
   `CEPH_GIT_DIR` to the correct path of the checkout. Additional CMake args 
   can be specified by setting ARGS before invoking ``do_cmake.sh``. 
   See [cmake options](#cmake-options) for more details. For example:

       ARGS="-DCMAKE_C_COMPILER=gcc-7" ./do_cmake.sh

   To build only certain targets, run a command of the following form:

       ninja [target name]

5. Install the vstart cluster:

       ninja install

## Build Types

``do_cmake.sh`` by default creates a "debug build" of Ceph (assuming `.git` exists).
A ``Debug`` build runtime performance may be as little as 20% of that of a non-debug build.
Pass ``-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo`` to ``do_cmake.sh`` to create a
non-debug build.
The default build type is ``RelWithDebInfo`` once `.git` does not exist.

| CMake mode          | Debug info | Optimizations      | Sanitizers          | Checks                   | Use for           |
| ------------------- | ---------- | -------------------|-------------------- | -------------------------| ------------------|
| `Debug`             | Yes        | `-Og`              | None                | `ceph_assert`, `assert`  | gdb, development  |
| `RelWithDebInfo`    | Yes        | `-O2`, `-DNDEBUG`  | None                | `ceph_assert` only       | production        |
 
### CMake Options

The `-D` flag can be used with `cmake` to speed up the process of building Ceph
and to customize the build.

#### Building without RADOS Gateway

The RADOS Gateway is built by default. To build Ceph without the RADOS Gateway,
run a command of the following form:

	cmake -DWITH_RADOSGW=OFF [path to top-level ceph directory]

#### Building with debugging and arbitrary dependency locations 

Run a command of the following form to build Ceph with debugging and alternate
locations for some external dependencies:

	cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/opt/ceph -DCMAKE_C_FLAGS="-Og -g3 -gdwarf-4" \
	..

Ceph has several bundled dependencies such as Boost, RocksDB and Arrow. By
default, `cmake` builds these bundled dependencies from source instead of using
libraries that are already installed on the system. You can opt to use these
system libraries, as long as they meet Ceph's version requirements. To use
system libraries, use `cmake` options like `WITH_SYSTEM_BOOST`, as in the
following example:

	cmake -DWITH_SYSTEM_BOOST=ON [...]

To view an exhaustive list of -D options, invoke `cmake -LH`:

	cmake -LH

#### Preserving diagnostic colors

If you pipe `ninja` to `less` and would like to preserve the diagnostic colors
in the output in order to make errors and warnings more legible, run the
following command:  

	cmake -DDIAGNOSTICS_COLOR=always ...

The above command works only with supported compilers.

The diagnostic colors will be visible when the following command is run: 

	ninja | less -R

Other available values for `DIAGNOSTICS_COLOR` are `auto` (default) and
`never`.

## Tips and Tricks

   * Use "debug builds" only when needed. Debugging builds are helpful for
     development, but they can slow down performance. Use
     `-DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release` when debugging isn't necessary.
   * Enable Selective Daemons when testing specific components. Don't start
     unnecessary daemons.
   * Preserve Existing Data skip cluster reinitialization between tests by
     using the `-n` flag.
   * To manage a vstart cluster, stop daemons using `./stop.sh` and start them
     with `./vstart.sh --daemon osd.${ID} [--nodaemonize]`. 
   * Restart the sockets by stopping and restarting the daemons associated with
     them. This ensures that there are no stale sockets in the cluster.
   * To track RocksDB performance, set `export ROCKSDB_PERF=true` and start
     the cluster by using the command `./vstart.sh -n -d -x --bluestore`. 
   * Build with `vstart-base` using debug flags in cmake, compile, and deploy
     via `./vstart.sh -d -n --bluestore`.
   * To containerize, generate configurations with `vstart.sh`, and deploy with
     Docker, mapping directories and configuring the network.
   * Manage containers using `docker run`, `stop`, and `rm`. For detailed
     setups, consult the Ceph-Container repository.

##  Troubleshooting     
 
   * Cluster Fails to Start: Look for errors in the logs under the `out/`
     directory.
   * OSD Crashes: Check the OSD logs for errors.
   * Cluster in a `Health Error` State: Run the `ceph status` command to
     identify the issue.
   * RocksDB Errors: Look for RocksDB-related errors in the OSD logs.

## Building a source tarball

To build a complete source tarball with everything needed to build from
source and/or build a (deb or rpm) package, run

	./make-dist

This will create a tarball like ceph-$version.tar.bz2 from git.
(Ensure that any changes you want to include in your working directory
are committed to git.)


## Running a test cluster

From the `ceph/` directory, run the following commands to launch a test Ceph
cluster:

	cd build
	ninja vstart        # builds just enough to run vstart
	../src/vstart.sh --debug --new -x --localhost --bluestore
	./bin/ceph -s

Most Ceph commands are available in the `bin/` directory. For example:

	./bin/rbd create foo --size 1000
	./bin/rados -p foo bench 30 write

To shut down the test cluster, run the following command from the `build/`
directory:

	../src/stop.sh

Use the sysvinit script to start or stop individual daemons: 

	./bin/init-ceph restart osd.0
	./bin/init-ceph stop


## Running unit tests

To build and run all tests (in parallel using all processors), use `ctest`:

	cd build
	ninja
	ctest -j$(nproc)

(Note: Many targets built from src/test are not run using `ctest`.
Targets starting with "unittest" are run in `ninja check` and thus can
be run with `ctest`. Targets starting with "ceph_test" can not, and should
be run by hand.)

When failures occur, look in build/Testing/Temporary for logs.

To build and run all tests and their dependencies without other
unnecessary targets in Ceph:

	cd build
	ninja check -j$(nproc)

To run an individual test manually, run `ctest` with -R (regex matching):

	ctest -R [regex matching test name(s)]

(Note: `ctest` does not build the test it's running or the dependencies needed
to run it)

To run an individual test manually and see all the tests output, run
`ctest` with the -V (verbose) flag:

	ctest -V -R [regex matching test name(s)]

To run tests manually and run the jobs in parallel, run `ctest` with 
the `-j` flag:

	ctest -j [number of jobs]

There are many other flags you can give `ctest` for better control
over manual test execution. To view these options run:

	man ctest


### Building Ceph using Containers

Ceph now provides tools to build the code, run unit tests, or build packages
from within an OCI-style container using Podman or Docker! This allows one to
build code for distributions other than the one you have on your system, avoids
the need to install build dependencies for Ceph on your local system and
provides an opportunity to test builds on platforms that are not yet supported
by the official build infrastructure. For more details see the [container build
document](ContainerBuild.md).


## Building the Documentation

### Prerequisites

The list of package dependencies for building the documentation can be
found in `doc_deps.deb.txt`:

	sudo apt-get install `cat doc_deps.deb.txt`

### Building the Documentation

To build the documentation, ensure that you are in the top-level
`/ceph` directory, and execute the build script. For example:

	admin/build-doc

## Reporting Issues

To report an issue and view existing issues, please visit https://tracker.ceph.com/projects/ceph.
